1 2

SWITCH IMPLEMENTATION

Firstly we should talk about the routing process, which consists of selecting the best route for a 
packet to travel from the source to the destination. In this project, this is done by the switches. 
The switches have a MAC table that stores the MAC addresses of the interfaces connected to them. 
The function switch_setup reads the configuration file of the switches and stores the priority of 
the switch and data about the interfaces on the switch: number, vlan and state (if the STP protocol 
would be implemented) and returns these informations as a vector of tuples called 'vlans'. Every 
time a packet is received, the switch will store the MAC address of the source and then look for 
the destination MAC in the MAC table. If the destination MAC is found,the switch will send the 
packet to the interface corresponding to the destination MAC. Otherwise, the switch will send the 
packet to all the interfaces except the one that sent the packet, flooding the network until the 
packet reaches the destination.

If '(dest_mac_bytes[0] & 0x01) != 0' then the packet is a broadcast packet and it will be sent to 
all the interfaces except the one that sent the packet.

The interfaces might have a vlan tag. If the vlan tag is not present in the packet, it means that 
the packet came from a host, and the switch will check the vlan of the interface from the 'vlans' 
vector. If there are any hosts that have the same tag and the switch can send them the packet 
dirrectly, the switch will send the packet to them. Otherwise, we add the vlan tag to the packet 
by inserting the vlan id in the packet between the source MAC and the ethertype. If the vlan tag is 
present in the packet, it means that the packet comes from another switch and we check if the 
current switch has any interfaces with the same vlan tag. If it has, the switch will send the packet 
to those interfaces after removing the vlan tag. Otherwise, it will send the packet to the trunk 
ports, which are other switches. At every step, we check that the vlan tag of the destination is 
the same as the source or if the interface is a trunk and that the interface that we want to send 
the packet to is not the source interface. The 'BLOCKED' state is used for the STP protocol, which 
is not implemented in this project.